now young or old Tik Tok or X formerly
known as Twitter your social media feeds
are unique to you but could they be
shaping how you view the Israel Gaza
wall the BBC's disinformation and social
media correspondent Mariana spring has
been finding out social media algorithms
which recommend content to you seem to
be driving some users towards
increasingly divisive posts about Israel
and Gaza that can shape public opinion
I've been told some MPS are receiving a
huge influx of messages including from
young people others are worried about
hate online let's start with Tik Tok
videos here from Israeli soldiers these
kinds of videos seem a bit more polished
trying to play into viral Trends
meanwhile videos from bloggers in Gaza
and pro Palestinian users at home seem
to trigger a more positive reaction from
Young users Tik toks using the hasht
iand with isra Israel have racked up
more than 240 million views over all
compared with more than 870 million
views for videos using the hash IAM with
pal
similar to other video based sites with
younger users one Israeli soldier called
Daniel makes Tik Tok videos like this
one with 2.1 million views but since
then his views have decreased
significantly Daniel has had support
criticism and anti-semitic abuse he told
me that I'm not taking personally the
hate reactions because first of all I
did nothing wrong second people around
the world are so dedicated to hating
Israel so it doesn't matter what is in
my content Pro Palestinian creators like
Ariana share their views from their
bedroom like she does in the US she
experienced criticism and islamophobic
hate at first but then that
changed people started following me they
started discovering me and so the
numbers started shooting up I have
received more engagement on Tik Tok I've
had multiple videos receive more than a
million
views both creators say their content
hasn't been sponsored questions remain
about whether the Israeli government or
Hamas who which is prescribed as a
terrorist group by the UK government is
involved in encouraging unofficial
content when users are pushed more
content confirming their views extreme
ideas can gain traction you can see here
how Tik Tok blocked the search term a
letter to America that's because on the
app several young users began to share
and praise parts of assama Bin Laden's
letter to America his justification for
the 9/11 attack without mentioning its
anti-semitic or homophobic content Tik
Tok said there were only a small number
of these videos which is since removed
and interest was Amplified on other
sides Tik Tok has also said our
recommendation algorithm doesn't take
sides and has rigorous measures in place
to prevent manipulation and it's removed
1.1 million videos from the region
promoting hate and
terrorism profession professional
pro-israeli content including videos
about hostages is having a significant
reach on X formerly known as Twitter a
site Which is popular with politicians
and journalists Clips have released
Palestinian detainees seem less popular
on X than t Tik Tok according to x post
shared there by the state of Israel's
official account racked up over 40
million views between the 16th and the
21st of November compared to 200,000
views for the official account for the
Palestinian mission to the UN X has been
accused by politicians and celebrities
of allowing the spread of hateful and
misleading content under its new owner
Elon Musk which he and the company have
denied social media feeds are many
people's window into what's happening in
the war and their shaping views
worldwide
you can read more online now and listen
to the new Global story podcast on BBC
sounds Marana spring there just before
we go